---
title: "General"
author: "aehrea"
id: general
slug: /
---

:::caution Under Construction

These docs are incomplete.

:::

Mapping Tools is an all-in-one application for utilities for mapping in _osu!_.  
It ensures reliable quality by using shared algorithms, automatic updating and backups.

## Navigation {#navigation}

Mapping Tools by default opens to the Get Started Screen, which contains a changelog of the application, as well as a list of most recently used maps with Mapping Tools. 

This screen can also be reached via **Options > Get started**.

### File {#file}

The **File** tab contains explicit operations for loading and saving your .osu beatmap files.

- **Open beatmap** opens a file explorer to select a map to load into Mapping Tools.
- **Open current beatmap** opens the beatmap open in the _osu!_ editor.
- **Generate backup** creates a backup of the map currently open in Mapping Tools.
- **Load backup** opens a file explorer to select a backup to overwrite the map currently open in Mapping Tools.
- **BetterSave™ current beatmap** saves the map currently open in Mapping Tools with rounding rather than truncating.

### Tools {#tools}

The **Tools** tab contains a list of all tools available in Mapping Tools.

Each tool contains tooltips explaining what they do, how they work, and what each property means.

You can also read documentation on a tool by navigating to the appropriate sidebar option here.

### Options {#options}

The **Options** tab contains functions for working with local Mapping Tools data.

- **Get started** brings you back to the Get Started Screen.
- **Preferences** opens the Preferences window, where controls how Mapping Tools obtains and works with information.
- **Open backups folder** opens the folder containing all backups generated by Mapping Tools.
- **Open Mapping Tools folder** opens the folder containing local projects and configurations for Mapping Tools.

### About {#about}

The **About** tab provides additional information pertaining to Mapping Tools.