---
title: "Navigation"
author: "aehrea"
id: navigation
---

Mapping Tools by default opens to the Get Started Screen, which contains a changelog of the application, as well as a list of most recently used maps with Mapping Tools. This screen can also be reached via **Options > Get started**.

At the bottom of the screen is a blue bar which displays the _Current beatmap_. This is the beatmap that will be worked on by most of the mapping tools.

### File {#file}

The **File** menu contains buttons for selecting, loading, and saving your beatmap files.

- **Open beatmap** opens a file explorer to select one or more beatmap to set as the current beatmap.
- **Open current beatmap** sets the current beatmap to the beatmap currently selected in the _osu!_ client.
- **Generate backup** creates a backup of the current beatmap.
- **Load backup** opens a file explorer to select a backup beatmap to load into the current beatmap.
- **BetterSave™ current beatmap** saves the beatmap currently open in _osu!_ editor with coordinate rounding rather than truncating.

### Tools {#tools}

The **Tools** menu lists all mapping tools available in Mapping Tools.

For more information about each tool look in the **Tools** section of the documentation.

### Options {#options}

The **Options** menu contains functions for working with local Mapping Tools data.

- **Get started** brings you back to the Get Started screen.
- **Preferences** opens the Preferences screen which contains all global settings of Mapping Tools.
- **Open backups folder** opens the folder containing all backups generated by Mapping Tools.
- **Open Mapping Tools folder** opens the folder containing all files generated by Mapping Tools such as settings, backups, and exports.

### About {#about}

The **About** menu provides additional information pertaining to Mapping Tools.

### Project {#project}

The **Project** menu is only visible while viewing the screen of one of the mapping tools. It contains buttons for saving and loading tool-specific settings.